 

Warrior Shield:
Emergency Warning System for Texas A&M University-Central Texas 
Warrior Shield is an emergency notification service that gives Texas A&M University-Central 
Texas the ability to communicate health and safety emergency information quickly via email, 
text message, and social media. All students are automatically enrolled in Warrior Shield 
through their myCT email account.

Connect to Warrior Shield by 911Cellular [https://portal.publicsafetycloud.net/Account/Login] 
to change where you receive your alerts or to opt out.  By staying enrolled in Warrior Shield, 
university officials can quickly pass on safety-related information, regardless of your location. 

COURSE INFORMATION
Course Objective:
Student Learning Outcomes:
COSC 3351. Data Structures. 3 Credit Hours.
Examine theory and application of commonly used computer data structures, files, file 
organization and access methods, databases, and other storage and retrieval methods. 
Prerequisite(s): A programming course in C/C++, Visual Basic, Java, or permission of 
department chair.
Required Reading and Textbook(s):
“Data Structures and Algorithms in Java LaFore. 
 
COURSE REQUIREMENTS
Course Requirements: (include point values for each- not just a percentage)




Grading Criteria Rubric and Conversion 
There will be 7 programming assignments worth 100 points each and one exam worth 30 
point.






TECHNOLOGY REQUIREMENTS AND SUPPORT
You need to include information about Technology Requirements and Support. In addition, 
include a statement on the technology requirements for the successful completion of the course 
and when applicable, information on how to access these resources (for example, how to obtain 
a certain software through University site license).   
Technology Requirements 
This course will use the A&M-Central Texas Instructure Canvas learning management system.
Logon to A&M-Central Texas Canvas [https://tamuct.instructure.com/] or access Canvas 
through the TAMUCT Online link in myCT [https://tamuct.onecampus.com/].  You will log in 
through our Microsoft portal.
Username: Your MyCT email address. Password: Your MyCT password

Canvas Support
Use the Canvas Help link, located at the bottom of the left-hand menu, for issues with 
Canvas.  You can select “Chat with Canvas Support,” submit a support request through “Report 
a Problem,” or call the Canvas support line: 1-844-757-0953. 
For issues related to course content and requirements, contact your instructor.

Other Technology Support
For log-in problems, students should contact Help Desk Central. 
24 hours a day, 7 days a week:
Email: helpdesk@tamu.edu
Phone: (254) 519-5466
Web Chat: [http://hdc.tamu.edu]
Please let the support technician know you are an A&M-Central Texas student.
 
UNIVERSITY RESOURCES, PROCEDURES, AND GUIDELINES

Drop Policy.
If you discover that you need to drop this class, you must complete a Drop Request Form
[https://www.tamuct.edu/registrar/docs/Drop_Request_Form.pdf].

Professors cannot drop students; this is always the responsibility of the student. The Registrar’s 
Office will provide a deadline on the Academic Calendar for which the form must be completed, 
signed and returned. Once you return the signed form to the Registrar’s Office, you must go 
into Warrior Web and confirm that you are no longer enrolled. If you still show as enrolled, 
FOLLOW-UP with the Registrar’s Office immediately. You are to attend class until the procedure 
is complete to avoid penalty for absence. Should you miss the drop deadline or fail to follow the 
procedure, you will receive an F in the course, which may affect your financial aid and/or VA 
educational benefits. 

Academic Integrity. 
Texas A&M University -Central Texas values the integrity of the academic enterprise and strives 
for the highest standards of academic conduct. A&M-Central Texas expects its students, faculty, 
and staff to support the adherence to high standards of personal and scholarly conduct to 
preserve the honor and integrity of the creative community. Academic integrity is defined as a 
commitment to honesty, trust, fairness, respect, and responsibility. Any deviation by students 
from this expectation may result in a failing grade for the assignment and potentially a failing 
grade for the course. Academic misconduct is any act that improperly affects a true and honest 
evaluation of a student’s academic performance and includes, but is not limited to, cheating on 
an examination or other academic work, plagiarism and improper citation of sources, using 
another student’s work, collusion, and the abuse of resource materials. All academic 
misconduct concerns will be reported to the university’s Office of Student Conduct. Ignorance 
of the university’s standards and expectations is never an excuse to act with a lack of integrity. 
When in doubt on collaboration, citation, or any issue, please contact your instructor before 
taking a course of action. 

For more information regarding the Student Conduct process, 
[https://www.tamuct.edu/student-affairs/student-conduct.html].
If you know of potential honor violations by other students, you may submit a report, 
[https://cm.maxient.com/reportingform.php?TAMUCentralTexas&layout_id=0].

Academic Accommodations. 
At Texas A&M University-Central Texas, we value an inclusive learning environment where 
every student has an equal chance to succeed and has the right to a barrier-free education. The 
Office of Access and Inclusion is responsible for ensuring that students with a disability receive 
equal access to the university’s programs, services and activities. If you believe you have a 
disability requiring reasonable accommodations please contact the Office of Access and 
Inclusion, WH-212; or call (254) 501-5836. Any information you provide is private and 
confidential and will be treated as such.

For more information please visit our Access & Inclusion Canvas page (log-in required) 
[https://tamuct.instructure.com/courses/717]

Important information for Pregnant and/or Parenting Students. 
Texas A&M University-Central Texas supports students who are pregnant and/or parenting. In 
accordance with requirements of Title IX and related guidance from US Department of 
Education’s Office of Civil Rights, the Dean of Student Affairs’ Office can assist students who are 
pregnant and/or parenting in seeking accommodations related to pregnancy and/or parenting. 
Students should seek out assistance as early in the pregnancy as possible. For more 
information, please visit Student Affairs [https://www.tamuct.edu/student-affairs/index.html]. 
Students may also contact the institution’s Title IX Coordinator. If you would like to read more 
about these requirements and guidelines online, please visit the website 
[http://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/docs/pregnancy.pdf]. 

Title IX of the Education Amendments Act of 1972 prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex 
and gender–including pregnancy, parenting, and all related conditions. A&M-Central Texas is 
able to provide flexible and individualized reasonable accommodation to pregnant and 
parenting students. All pregnant and parenting students should contact the Associate Dean in 
the Division of Student Affairs at (254) 501-5909 to seek out assistance. Students may also 
contact the University’s Title IX Coordinator. 

Tutoring. 
Tutoring is available to all A&M-Central Texas students, both on-campus and online. 
Subjects tutored on campus include Accounting, Advanced Math, Biology, Finance, 
Statistics, Mathematics, and Study Skills. Tutors are available at the Tutoring Center in Warrior 
Hall, Suite 111. Tutor.com tutoring will not offer writing support beginning August 1, 2019. 
If you have a question regarding tutor schedules, need to schedule a tutoring session, 
are interested in becoming a tutor, or have any other question, contact Academic 
Support Programs at (254) 519-5796, or by emailing Dr. DeEadra Albert-Green 
at deeadra.albertgreen@tamuct.edu.
Chat live with a tutor 24/7 for almost any subject from on your computer! Tutor.com is 
an online tutoring platform that enables A&M-Central Texas students to log in and receive 
online tutoring support at no additional cost. This tool provides tutoring in over 40 subject 
areas. Access Tutor.com through Canvas.

University Writing Center. 
Located in Warrior Hall 416, the University Writing Center (UWC) at Texas A&M University–
Central Texas (TAMUCT) is a free workspace open to all TAMUCT students from 10:00 a.m.-5:00 
p.m. Monday thru Thursday with satellite hours in the University Library Monday thru Thursday 
from 6:00-9:00 p.m. This semester, the UWC is also offering online only hours from 12:00-3:00 
p.m. on Saturdays.
Tutors are prepared to help writers of all levels and abilities at any stage of the writing process. 
While tutors will not write, edit, or grade papers, they will assist students in developing more 
effective composing practices. By providing a practice audience for students’ ideas and writing, 
our tutors highlight the ways in which they read and interpret students’ texts, offering guidance 
and support throughout the various stages of the writing process. In addition, students may 
work independently in the UWC by checking out a laptop that runs the Microsoft Office suite 
and connects to WIFI, or by consulting our resources on writing, including all of the relevant 
style guides. Whether you need help brainstorming ideas, organizing an essay, proofreading, 
understanding proper citation practices, or just want a quiet place to work, the UWC is here to 
help!
Students may arrange a one-to-one session with a trained and experienced writing tutor by 
visiting the UWC during normal operating hours (both half-hour and hour sessions are 
available) or by making an appointment via WCOnline  [https://tamuct.mywconline.com/]. In 
addition, you can email Dr. Bruce Bowles Jr. at bruce.bowles@tamuct.edu if you have any 
questions about the UWC and/or need any assistance with scheduling. 
University Library. 
The University Library provides many services in support of research across campus and at a 
distance. We offer over 200 electronic databases containing approximately 250,000 eBooks and 
82,000 journals, in addition to the 85,000 items in our print collection, which can be mailed to 
students who live more than 50 miles from campus. Research guides for each subject taught at 
A&M-Central Texas are available through our website to help students navigate these 
resources. On campus, the library offers technology including cameras, laptops, microphones, 
webcams, and digital sound recorders. 

Research assistance from a librarian is also available 24 hours a day through our online chat 
service, and at the reference desk when the library is open. Research sessions can be scheduled 
for more comprehensive assistance, and may take place on Skype or in-person at the library. 
Assistance may cover many topics, including how to find articles in peer-reviewed journals, how 
to cite resources, and how to piece together research for written assignments. 

Our 27,000-square-foot facility on the A&M-Central Texas main campus includes student 
lounges, private study rooms, group work spaces, computer labs, family areas suitable for all 
ages, and many other features. Services such as interlibrary loan, TexShare, binding, and 
laminating are available. The library frequently offers workshops, tours, readings, and other 
events. For more information, please visit our Library website 
[http://tamuct.libguides.com/index]. 
 

OPTIONAL POLICY STATEMENTS:
A Note about Sexual Violence at A&M-Central Texas 
Sexual violence is a serious safety, social justice, and public health issue. The university offers 
support for anyone struggling with these issues. University faculty are mandated reporters, so if 
someone discloses that they were sexually assaulted (or a victim of Domestic/Dating Violence 
or Stalking) while a student at TAMUCT, faculty members are required to inform the Title IX 
Office. If you want to discuss any of these issues confidentially, you can do so through Student 
Counseling (254-501-5955) located on the second floor of Warrior Hall (207L).

Sexual violence can occur on our campus because predators often feel emboldened, and 
victims often feel silenced or shamed. It is incumbent on ALL of us to find ways to actively 
create environments that tell predators we don’t agree with their behaviors and tell survivors 
we will support them. Your actions matter. Don’t be a bystander; be an agent of change. For 
additional information on campus policy and resources visit the Title IX webpage 
[https://www.tamuct.edu/departments/compliance/titleix.php].

Behavioral Intervention
Texas A&M University-Central Texas cares about the safety, health, and well-being of its 
students, faculty, staff, and community. If you are aware of individuals for whom you have a 
concern, who are exhibiting behaviors that pose a threat to safety, or individuals causing a 
significant disruption to our community, please make a referral to the Behavioral Intervention 
Team. You can complete the referral online 
[https://cm.maxient.com/reportingform.php?TAMUCentralTexas&layout_id=2]. 

Anonymous referrals are accepted. Please see the Behavioral Intervention Team website for 
more information [https://www.tamuct.edu/student-affairs/bat.html]. If a person’s behavior 
poses an imminent threat to you or another, contact 911 or A&M-Central Texas University 
Police at 254-501-5800.
 

INSTRUCTOR POLICIES. 
No late work will be accepted.    
Do not copy another students program and claim it as your own work Dr. Woodcock reserves 
the right to change this syllabus at any time.

Copyright Notice.
Students should assume that all course material is copyrighted by the respective 
author(s). Reproduction of course material is prohibited without consent by the author 
and/or course instructor. Violation of copyright is against the law and Texas A&M 
University-Central Texas’ Code of Academic Honesty. All alleged violations will be 
reported to the Office of Student Con Copyright. (2019) by (Dr. Timothy Woodcock) at 
Texas A&M University-Central Texas, (Business); 1001 Leadership Place, Killeen, TX 
76549; FACULTY Phone 254- 519-5783; Woodcocktg@tamuct.eduduct. 
		

1

